HDHRTV - a streaming server for both DLAN and non-DLNA HDHomeRun devices that
can stream a native MPEG2 TS stream (DLNA devices only) or transcoded flash
stream. MythTV program listings can be displayed if a MythTV server is available.


1. Disclaimer

HDHRTV is a hobby project that has been developed to serve a need but not
be a perfect body of code. It most likely will contain bugs. Please note that
security is ultimately the responsibility of the person installing software
on a server. It is highly encouraged to secure any public facing server with
password protection and encryption. 

The transcoding and streaming method used by HDHRTV is rather crude and
simplistic. The possibility exists that FFmpeg processes could become orphaned
when streams are not cleanly initiated or closed. Please check for orphaned
FFmpeg processes on a regular basis if the streaming server is being regularly used. 


2. Overview

HDHRTV was originally developed for the HDHomeRun PRIME, which is a CableCard
tuner device capable of HTTP streaming the native MPEG2 TS digital cable stream
tuned by the device over a network. Unfortunately, this stream is typically too
large to stream over WiFi or outside the local network, though the native standard
definition stream will stream okay, in most cases, over WiFi on the local network.
In order to allow streaming to any location, HDHRTV transcodes the MPEG stream to
a flash video and streams it via a web page. Though Apple devices have embraced
HTML 5 and HTTP Live Streaming (HLS), it seems that the rest of the world is slow
to get on board. Android seems to only have mild success with HLS depending on what
3rd party applications have been installed. As such, HDHRTV has been developed to
stream Flash until the rest of the OS world catches up to HTML 5 and HLS streaming.
If interested in setting up an HLS server for the HDHomeRun PRIME, consider using
Wallop (http://jonmaddox.com/wallop/). For direct streaming using Android device,
consider using MX Player or Daroon Player. Standard definition flash streaming
should work on nearly any server. HD channels will require that a decent, modern
processor be used for transcoding. Also note that a couple of ffmpeg configurations
have been set up in the configuration file. One uses the original Sorenson flv codec.
This codec cannot multithread, so it will most likely not be effective transcoding
HD channels. The other ffmpeg configuration uses h.264 video and mp3 audio in an
flv container. This configuration is capable of multithreading and should be able
to transcode HD video.

The predecessors to the HDHomeRun PRIME were not capable of streaming directly
ove HTTP, but HDHRTV can still stream a flash stream using these legacy devices.
The server uses hdhomerun_config to create this stream. Please refer to the
Silicon Dust website and documentation for installation instructions of
hdhomerun_config. HDHRTV streaming of legacy, non-DLNA HDHomeRun devices was added in
HDHRTV version 0.2.


3. Credits

- GUI modeled after Web1.0MPC (http://web10mpc.geuecke.org/)
- Thanks to Jon Maddox and his Wallop server which is an HDHR streaming server for
  iOS and other devices that can stream HTML5 (https://github.com/maddox/wallop/ or
  http://jonmaddox.com/wallop/)


4. License

GPLv3 - see COPYING file.


5. Requirements

- HDHomeRun - either DLNA or non-DLNA
- Apache or similar webserver
- PHP >= 5.1
- FFmpeg
- MythTV (optional for channel listings and info)
- hdhomerun_config utility is required if using legacy, non-DLNA HDHomeRun device.

Development system: CentOS 6.4, Apache 2.2.15, PHP 5.3.3, MythTV .26,
FFmpeg 1.2.4, HDHomeRun Prime.


6. Features

Main Page / Listing:
- The main home page lists all the channels available.
  If MythTV is being used, then the channel data and
  listing info will be retrieved from MythTV. If MythTV
  is not being used, then channel data will be retrieved
  from the HDHomeRun. The HDHomeRun only provides channel
  number and name. If using a legacy device, a channel
  scan must be run from the settings page.
- Channel icons can be shown on the channel listings.
  Icons are configured in ./config/channel_icon_map.php.
  Icons reside in ./public/images/channel_icons/
- The play button on the left can be configured to start
  the flash player or provide a direct HTTP link to the
  HDHomeRun PRIME. Only flash player is available for 
  non-DLNA devices.
- If the direct link to the stream is selected, the client
  device must be configured to play this link. On Android,
  consider using MX Player or Daroon. On a standard computer,
  consider VLC.

Favorites:
- Favorite channels are listed by selecting the star icon from
  the header menu. Favorite channels can be set by browsing to
  the Favorties page then selecting 'Edit' from the header menu. 

Channel Details:
- The channel details page is shown when selecting the arrow
  on the right of an individual channel on the listings page.
  The detail page will show information for the selected
  channel. If MythTV listings are being used, program details
  and start/stop time will be shown. From this details page,
  the user can select a link to play the channel via a direct
  URL or via the flash player. This direct link is only available
  for DLNA devices.  

Settings:
- The user can adjust general and transcoding settings.
  The settings are stored in a user cookie. If cookies
  aren't enabled, then the default settings defined in the
  config file will be used. 

Channel Scan:
- Channel Scan is selected from the Settings page but is
  only available if the HDHR is a legacy device as defined
  in the config file. The channel scan must initially be run
  before the streaming server can be functional when using
  legacy HDHR devices.


7. Installation

- Extract the files to a directory on your webserver.
- Check and adjust file and directory permissions.
- Make any additional adjustments to the server as necessary for the specific
  application directory, such as password protection, etc.  
- Copy ./config/config.php.dist to ./config/config.php. Edit ./config/config.php.
  The config file contains three sections. The first section contains the
  application settings, all defined in the $config[] array. The next section
  contains the ffmpeg transcoding settings, all defined in the $ffmpeg_cmd[]
  array. The last section contains the user settings, the respective setting's
  selections, and the default setting, all within a nested array defined by the
  $user_config[] array.
- All of the config file settings are well documented.
- Edit the ./config/channel_icon_map.php file to assign channel icon images to
  channel numbers. Add channel icon images to ./public/images/channel_icons 
  as necessary.
- Run a channel scan from the Settings page if a legacy HDHR is being used and
  defined in the config file.

8. Tips and Tricks

- For direct streaming to Android, there has been success with both MX Player and
  Daroon Player depending on the hardware and Android version.
- If HDHRTV is running on a server without enough processing power, it is possible 
  to use ssh and have another machine with greater processing capabilities take care of
  transcoding. A line exists in the config file to define the ssh command. The remote
  machine will transfer its standard output to the server running HDHRTV. Remote ssh keys
  will need to be set up to allow for apache, or whatever user is used to run the webserver,
  to connect to the remote machine and execute ffmpeg.
  See (http://mingstert.blogspot.com/2009/11/ssh-via-apache-deamon-user.html) 


9. Known issues

- The php web page uses a very simple 'passthru' command to stream the output of ffmpeg
  to the web page's flash player. If the server has issues transcoding or streaming
  the video, the php page will stop responding and the ffmpeg process will be orphaned.
  If an ffmpeg process is orphaned, it typically won't increase the server's load. The
  server administrator should 'ps aux | grep ffmpeg' for orphaned ffmpeg processes from
  time to time and clean up as necessary.


10. Possible TODO Items

- Monitor for ophaned ffmpeg processed and terminate gracefully if discovered.
  Consider usind PID files.
- Add user option to terminate any orphaned ffmpeg processes.
- Add more options and information to Flowplayer, such as 'now playing',
  adjust bitrate, mini-EPG. Mini-EPG could be a menu of favorite channels.
- Favorite channels (added in version 0.2)
- Create a direct streaming wrapper to stream the full MPEG-TS file via HTTP
  for legacy devices.

11. History

version 0.2 (2014-01-18)
- add ability to use legacy, non-DLNA HDHomeRun devices
- add 'Favorites' page and function
- add transcoding option for Audio Only
- refactored portions of code, improved error checking, and revised channel model

version 0.1 (2013-11-23):
- initial release
